hello everyone and welcome I'm going to
show you how to model a kayak or the
canoe the model that I will create can
be found at SolidWorks design Facebook
page I'm going to do a short
introduction through the features that I
am going to use through the video
tutorial so let's find the model I'm
going to use the opera web browser
because it will allow me to pop up the
video and scroll down for the features
list so type the SolidWorks is in
Facebook or just follow the screen okay
so the model can be found at the Salt
Works and Facebook page right here and
now I'm going to pop up this video and
search for the features list that I'm
going to use through this modeling
tutorial so I'm going to youtube channel
and I'm going to search for the features
while this is still running okay the
most attractive features that you will
learn in this tutorial are offset
surface extrude extrude to the sketch
extrude cut 3d sketches
sea surface
unit tangent self-esteem construction
line convert entities and circle spline
circular pattern sea surface knit and so
so let's get started I'm going to shut
this screens okay now we are going to
new and the select part and click OK
my goal is to make the hull of the kayak
using boundary surface boundary surface
is a tool built in SolidWorks which with
which you can make surfaces between
boundaries so I need two boundaries and
at least one line that represents the
bed so I need three sketches and this
first sketch will be in the front plane
just follow the dimensions that I tacked
here
boundary surface is used a lot in boat
making industry in in most cases it
delivers a higher quality result than
the left tool okay this is a sketch and
I need two more the second one will be
in the top plane and the third will be
in the right plane after I finish all
these three sketches I will use this
mentioned boundary surface
as you can see I missed the plane on
which I throw I don't want it therefore
I need to close this sketch and discard
it I'm going to make a new plane and
then draw on it so go to reference
geometry and plane and click on this
point right here and this is the plane
on which I want to draw now the second
sketch will be ok
and the second sketch is created now the
third sketch on the right plane so go to
the right plane and sketch control 8 for
the normal view and start sketching
I'm ready to you
boundary action go to surface at select
boundary surface now right-click and
select selection manager and choose this
sketch number one right click to confirm
and then the sketch number two right
click and direction to this is pad
it should look like on the screen
configure and this is the first part now
I'm going to use the mirror option and
I'm going to mirror about front plane go
to bodies to mirror select the body or
the surface body and choose can it
surfaces this is important because I
want these two surfaces to become one
surface okay see here surface bodies
it's only one body but if I uncheck this
need surface I will have two bodies two
separate bodies I want these two bodies
to be one body so I'm going back and
turn on this cliff surface option now
I'm going to use mirror once again but
this time you're about right plane and
I'm going to mirror this surface and of
course in it again
the next step is to use the trim feature
I will use it to make the surface more
realistic and better looking first I
need a sketch
now go to a survey stop service and
select dream surface make sure that
under the trim tool the sched file is
selected and then choose what surfaces
you want to delete
now I'm on my way to making the upper
part of the kayak I need on one sketch
and then I will use the boundary surface
again but this time I will use only one
sketch and one surface so this is the
surface line confirm with the right
click and this is the sketch okay now
one more time for the right side of the
cake
as you can see in the feature tree on
the left side I have three separate
surfaces I want them to be merged into
one entity so I'll use the clean surface
option choose all three surfaces choose
merge entities and select ok
if I suppress this service can it option
you will see that I have three surfaces
right here okay and if I use this
surface neat feature I will show only
one
now I will make a place for the driver
of the kayak using the familiar trim
comment just follow the video and use
the same dimensions is me
after Ida mentioned the seat for the
driver I will use the trim option and
trim these surfaces then I'm going to
use the pilot option that will shine up
all this work a little bit I will use
the radius of 20 millimeters so go to
fill it and follow
now it looks much more attractive the
next thing I'll do is making all the
curves for the slot where the driver
will be sitting to create the curve I
will use this whipped surface option for
this we need two profiles one must be
closed and will represent the pet and
the other one represents the profile of
the curb so this sketch represents the
profile of the curb
the important thing here is that this
line at this point
pierced represents the pet and it needs
to be closed so go to 3d sketch and
select the lines that I selected
okay and use convert entities now this
is this case represents the pad and go
to surface and the sweep surface under
this blue area select this profile right
click to continue and the rows area
select the closed profile okay and you
can see that this looks not so well okay
and you need to click here keep normal
constraint keep normal constant sorry
and now it looks way better confirm and
use the connect surface option to
connect the newly created surface with
the of the tire
I will now turn the surface into the
body by using the tecum feature follow
my instructions on the screen
and carefully select all the same as I
do because this option can be a little
tricky if you have not used the same
dimensions as I did it is possible that
this option will not do what we would
like
please note that we no longer have
surfaces in the future three now this is
a solid body now I'm going to use to
round the edges by using the Filat
option
I want to make a barrier between the two
slots but first I need to go to top
plane and create a new plane with the
distance of 50 millimeters from the top
plane okay confirm and now I can start
sketching but this new newly created
plane control 8 and go to line and draw
three lights like this screen so I want
to make a barrier between the two slots
the way I'm going to do that is by using
the rib option is a special type of
external feature create created from an
open or closed sketched contours it adds
material of specified thickness in
specified direction between the contour
and the existing part you can create
single or multiple sketches are commonly
used in no plastic parts to provide
structural integrity so go to features
and select rib
now I'll use the Reeb option again
instead of the Reeb option you can also
use extrude base or both option the rear
option joins the newly created part with
the existing structure while the boss
extrude option gives you a choice
whether you want the newly created part
to be connected to a to the existing
body or you want this newly created part
to be a separate
how I'm quick to edit the rear slot that
can be used for storing things so go to
create a new plane normally there would
come to cover by the cover is not a part
of this tutorial start sketching got
this new newly created plane and follow
the instructions on the screen
okay now I will use a little surface
modeling options again my goal is to
create the curve around the slot that is
used for storage of personal items but
with you serve excrement
now I used this surface of offset option
and use a trim option to trim the
outside surface that I don't want
now the deccan option is on the agenda
with which I will turn this surface into
the body
the last thing I will do on this
tutorial is adding cosmetic minutes just
to make this lot more attractive it is
general recommendation to save the
cosmetic minutes for the last try to
make cosmetic minutes after most other
geometry is in place because if you add
them earlier like I did it will take
longer to reveal the part
this is the end of this tutorial thank
you for watching until the next time
goodbye